# Solar Power Predictions

Solar Power is one of the fastest-growing renewable sources However There is a major challenge associated with solar power . variable Output from the solar power plants has severe consequences on the main grid . If he output from the solar power plant is not the same as it was expected to be ,to compensate the coal power plant produces the same power but one of disadvantages of the solathe r power plant is that,it produces the required electrical energy only when it is asked 12 hours before the production. But we wouldn't know if the output from the coal power plant is required or not at any instant, this is where machine learning comes into the picure , we can predict the output from the solar power plant with past data and weather forecasted data to predict output of the any inverter in the plant 

## Dataset
This Dataset has been downloaded from kaggle, and here's the overview of the data set 

The Data is collected at two Solar Power Plant in India over 34 Days. It has Two Pairs of files, each pair has one Power Generation data and One Sensor reading dataset. The power generation datasets are gathered at the inverter level - each inverter has multiple lines of solar panels attached to it. The sensor data is gathered at a plant level – a single array of sensors optimally placed at the plant

### Features of the Dataset 
The Power Generation has the following features

1.	‘SOURCE_KEY’: The source key in this file stands for the inverter id 
2.	‘DC_POWER’: Amount of DC power generated by the Inverter (source_key') in this 15-minute interval. Units - kW.   
3.	‘AC_POWER’: Amount of DC power generated by the Inverter (source_key') in this 15-minute interval. Units - kW. 
4.	‘DAILY_YIELD’: Daily yield is the cumulative sum of power generated on that day, till that point in time.
5.	‘TOTAL_YIELD’: This is the total yield for the inverter till that point in time.
6.	‘DATE_TIME’:    Date and time for each observation. Observations recorded at 15-minute intervals
7.	‘PLANT_ID’: Plant ID - this will be common for the entire file.

The Sensor Readings Datasets Consists of the following feature

1.	‘DATE_TIME’, ’SOURCE_KEY’,’ PLANT_ID’ same as it was in the Generation Dataset
2.	‘AMBIENT_TEMPERATURE’: This is the ambient temperature at the plant.
3.	‘MODULE_TEMPERATURE’: There's a module (solar panel) attached to the sensor panel. This is the temperature reading for that module.
4.	‘IRRADIATION’: Amount of irradiation for the 15-minute interval.

After All the  data preprocessng , Visualisation and Modelling the r2_score of the Model is shown below 

For Plant1 :
 * R2_score on training data :99.19%
 * R2_score on test data     :99.15

For plant2 :
 * R2_score on train data    :97.16%
 * R2_score on test data     :96.57%
